Add 2.1 blog post (#8932)
prettier/prettier: website/blog/2020-08-04-2.1.0.md

---
author: "Sosuke Suzuki (@sosukesuzuki)"
authorURL: "https://github.com/sosukesuzuki"
title: "Prettier 2.1: new --embedded-language-formatting option and new JavaScript/TypeScript features!"
---

> This release adds new `--embedded-language-formatting` option, support new JavaScript/TypeScript features and a lot of bugfixes and improvements!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release adds a new `--embedded-language-formatting` option, supports new JavaScript/TypeScript features, and includes many bug fixes and improvements!
```

// using --embedded-language-formatting=auto (or omitting this option)
html`
  <p>
    I am expecting this to come out exactly like it went in.
  </p>
`;

// using --embedded-language-formatting=off
html`
<p>
I am expecting this to come out exactly like it went in.
`;
```

### TypeScript

#### Support type annotations on catch clauses ([#8805](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/8805) by [@fisker](https://github.com/fisker))

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```ts
// Input
try {} catch (e: any) {}

// Prettier stable
try {
} catch (e) {}

// Prettier master
try {
} catch (e: any) {}
```

#### Support `Labeled Tuple Elements` ([#8885](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/8885) by [@fisker](https://github.com/fisker))

[`Labeled Tuple Elements`](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/typescript/announcing-typescript-4-0-beta/#labeled-tuple-elements)

_Only works for `babel-ts` parser_

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```ts
// Input
type Range = [start: number, end: number];

// Prettier stable
SyntaxError: Unexpected token, expected "," (1:20)
> 1 | type Range = [start: number, end: number];

// Prettier master
type Range = [start: number, end: number];
```

## Other changes

### JavaScript

> #### Support the F# and Smart pipeline operator proposals ([#6319](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/6319) by [@sosukesuzuki](https://github.com/sosukesuzuki), [@thorn0](https://github.com/thorn0), [#7979](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/7979) by [@sosukesuzuki](https://github.com/sosukesuzuki))

Author: Yes!

// Input
promises |> await;

// Output (Prettier stable)
SyntaxError: Unexpected token (1:18)
> 1 | promises |> await;
    |                  ^

// Output (Prettier master)
promises |> await;
```

**Smart Pipeline:**

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```js
// Input
5 |> # * 2

// Output (Prettier Stable)
SyntaxError: Unexpected character '#' (1:6)
> 1 | 5 |> # * 2
    |      ^

// Output (Prettier master)
5 |> # * 2
```

#### Further improve method chain breaking heuristic ([#7889](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/7889) by [@thorn0](https://github.com/thorn0))

A method chain now is always split onto multiple lines if:

- it's an expression statement and all its arguments are literals or `UPPERCASE_CONSTANT`s (the "fluent configuration" pattern),
- any call but the first one has more than two arguments, or
- the chain starts with a constructor call.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```jsx
// Input
cy.get(".ready")
  .should("have.text", "FOO")
  .should("have.css", "color", "#aaa");

// Prettier stable
cy.get(".ready").should("have.text", "FOO").should("have.css", "color", "#aaa");

// Prettier master
cy.get(".ready")
  .should("have.text", "FOO")
  .should("have.css", "color", "#aaa");

> ```

Author: If #8495 is merged, we'll remove this

/**
 * @format
 */
hello
  .world();

// Prettier stable
#!/usr/bin/env node
/**
 * @format
 */
hello
  .world();

// Prettier master
#!/usr/bin/env node
/**
 * @format
 */
hello.world();
```

#### Fix range formatting indentation ([#8410](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/8410) by [@thorn0](https://github.com/thorn0))

```console
> echo -e "export default class Foo{\n/**/\n}" | prettier --range-start 16 --range-end 31 --parser babel
```

<!--prettier-ignore-->
```js
// Prettier stable
export default class Foo {
                 /**/
               }

// Prettier master
export default class Foo {
  /**/
}
```

#### Improve detection of source elements for range formatting ([#8419](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/8419) by [@thorn0](https://github.com/thorn0))

Not all statement types were detected (read [here](https://prettier.io/docs/en/options.html#range) how range formatting works in Prettier).

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```jsx
// Input
for   (const  element of list) { /* ... */ }
//     ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ← range

// Prettier stable
for   (const  element of list) { /* ... */ }

// Prettier master
for (const element of list) {
  /* ... */
}
```

> #### Support Private Fields in `in` ([#8431](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/8431) by [@sosukesuzuki](https://github.com/sosukesuzuki))

Reviewer: only on Babel parsers, right?

(I did just raise PR #8942 to run the test on all Babel parsers.)

Author: Yes, works on only babel

title: "Prettier 2.1: new --embedded-language-formatting option and new JavaScript/TypeScript features!"
---

> This release adds a new `--embedded-language-formatting` option, supports new JavaScript/TypeScript features, and includes many bug fixes and improvements!

Reviewer 2: Don't you want update the original changelog? You might want run the `draft-blog-post.js` script again.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I mean other changes from changelog, not this one.
